>> Erik Reinert: We've got one last
definition section that we're gonna go
through, and then we're gonna jump into a
lot of the examples and things like that.
And this last section that we're gonna be
going over is really how you implement
backend architecture designs, right?
So we talked about what they are, right?
We talked about when you should
consider making these changes.
Right now, we can actually talk
about how to implement them.
So, good practices,
good processes on how to think about,
well, how am I gonna do this?
And I really like this GIF,
because I feel like we've all been there,
of like [SOUND] I don't know.
[LAUGH] So hopefully this section will
help you guys with that confidence.
So again, we're gonna talk about
another quote from AI here,
the prolific AI wisdom, which said,
mastering something isn't
a matter of precise science.
It's a craft honed through
the persistence of trial of experience,
learning and adapting as we navigate
the ever-unfolding journey.
[LAUGH] I love how prolific AI is.
So, one of the things I
did like about this was,
it's absolutely right in the sense
that these designs are normally
built based off of past experiences,
past knowledge.
You normally won't get a junior engineer
working on high level architecture
designs.
And that's not out of rudeness but
it's because they've probably only
experienced a couple of different systems.
They've probably only had the opportunity
to experience a couple of
different ways of doing
things in that whole process.
But after a company or a person has
spent a long time building these things,
understanding how they work,
understanding their fail points, and
things like that, that's really where
that value of expertise comes in
in improving your decision-making.
And again, it's not precision.
You could work at one company
spending your whole time there,
building systems one way, and then go to a
different company and even be frustrated,
cuz it was like, woah,
I'm so used to this.
And it's like, well,
you weren't working in this field before.
What are you gonna do?
The only thing to do is to learn,
adapt, and grow.
And so that's a lot of what I would like
you guys to at least keep in mind when we
talk about how you
implement these designs.
So, how we implement these designs in my
opinion really comes down to three stages,
research, implementation, and
then the last one, iteration.
And something about these design stages
are they are recursive, meaning you will
research something, you'll spend a lot of
time figuring things out and how to do it.
You'll then implement that design, right?
Get it into production,
get it into people's hands, and
then you'll probably iterate, right?
You'll probably make more changes over it,
and then figure out where you can improve,
where there might be other
changes that need to be made.
But then the process starts
all over again, right?
With iteration becomes potentially more
research, more implementation, and
then again, more iteration.
So this is a cyclical
process that never ends.
If you build an architecture at
a system and then leave it there and
never touch it again, it's for
either one of two reasons.
One, the system works so well [LAUGH]
that nobody needs to touch it,
which is rare but can happen, or
two, it's being neglected, right?
It's something that was just put there,
done, and then move on,
go to the next thing, right?
But massive companies that deal with
these crazy architectures almost
are always touching the same
systems over and over and
over again, iterating on them,
improving them, right?
They understand, as an organization,
that it's ever-growing,
just because we built something
one way today, we might change it.
And again, even companies, we'll be
talking a little later about Uber,
we'll be talking about Google,
Netflix, stuff like that.
And you can really see and
even documentation or things that they've
shared, that it's an always growing
process to the growth of the company.
First off and foremost,
we're gonna set requirements, right?
We're gonna identify the primary
purpose and the scope of the system.
Why are we building the thing that we're
building and the purpose of the system?
If you have multiple systems that you
have to make, break it down, right?
So what is this system's purpose?
What is the reason for why we're doing
this specific thing and scope it?
You don't really wanna deal with what's
called scope creep, or basically having
your scope continually grow bigger and
bigger and bigger and bigger.
That might mean that you're
actually not focusing properly and
you need to separate those
into two different scopes.
So having a good understanding
of the primary purpose,
keeping that very simple so
that you understand it, and
then defining really good scope around
the research that you're gonna do, right?
>> Speaker 2: Do you have any advice for
like, say you're on a project, and
in the middle of implementation phase,
it's clear that scope is creeping a lot or
maybe not enough time was spent
on the design [LAUGH] phase.
If you're not necessarily the person
in charge of the project,
how do you encourage other people to
maybe walk things back or press pause so
that you can-
>> Erik Reinert: Right.
>> Speaker 2: Get back to a scoped
thing that's well-designed?
>> Erik Reinert: So it's my seriously
firm belief that everyone has
a vocal voice in the engineering process.
Even if it's a junior engineer
who sees something and goes,
we're kinda taking a left-hand turn here,
man.
I don't know if we should do this.
It's gotta be up to
the culture to accept that.
Your are getting paid to do your job,
right?
And so I think that you should be in
a team that gives that opportunity, for
starters.
If it doesn't, then that's
a problem you need to fix, right?
You need to be able to go to your manager
and say, hey, listen, I'm trying to
say something about this, but
nobody's listening, and this sucks, right?
That's your manager's job.
It's the same way of having an employee
who's really not doing anything but
you don't know how to address that, right?
That's part of your manager's job or
your PM's job.
So I think the first thing to
do is address if it's ignored,
right, and then go to your manager and
say like hey, this is a serious problem.
But also having a really good
argument as well, right?
When you're moving really fast,
it's hard to be like, okay,
let's change everything when
you're halfway in, right?
But if you can, again, sit down and
write a 30-minute document on why this
is happening, and kind of have
a really good argument to convey,
then that should also be acceptable.
But you definitely don't wanna be the
person who just walks into the discussion
and is like, everything's on fire.
[LAUGH] That doesn't really help anyone.
So, being accurate with the problem and
then making sure you have a good culture
around vocal concerns and stuff like that.
Yeah, it's not easy, especially if
a lot of money's been put into it,
a lot of time's already been put into it.
I've been in that scenario where
halfway through, I've been like, guys,
I don't think this is gonna work.
[LAUGH] And then they're like, well, we're
too far, and it's like, all right, well.
One of the things I was taught by
a mentor of mine was it's never too late,
because it's going to be
even worse later on, right?
And you may have accidentally just
allocated too much resources in
the wrong place.
And so, yeah, again,
it's a bit of that salesman thing again,
you really gotta be able
to sell your argument.
>> Erik Reinert: Okay, so yeah,
again, back to research and
setting requirements, right?
We've talked about this a bit already,
but now you can kinda see how it's coming
together, which is, we first talked
about the primary purpose and the scope.
We now need to determine the expectations
of the end users of the system, right?
And normally, the end users of
the system are one of the two.
It's either developers using the system
for development purposes, or,
which is more common, the users themselves
and how they're going to use the system.
And you might think that, well,
that's just the forward-facing API
that they're interacting with.
No, it's anything that that API talks to
or anything that that API interacts with.
And this is where, again,
huge companies that have incredibly large,
distributed systems have to
factor in everything downstream.
I don't know if you guys have seen it,
but there's a funny video online of
microservices, and this guy being like,
we can't do it because of this, and
it's gotta go to this, and then over here.
And that is absolutely
accurate in a lot of ways, and
even gave me PTSD watching it.
Because, yeah,
it's not just one component, and
the more you drill down into that, the
more you realize that the user's touching
a lot more things than you
actually expect it to.
So, if you have a huge architecture for
one specific thing,
you might need to understand if
that need and expectation is there,
right, versus just having
a massively over complex system.
And then finally, or
one of the final ones,
is determine the functionality, right?
So we understand,
who's gonna be using this, right?
What is the functionality of that
system and what is its purpose?
Again, going back to
the whole scope creep.
This is actually a really good way to have
a valid argument where you can say, well,
listen, this is just for
the user's functionality to do this.
Why are we including this, right?
That's a really easy way of being able
to communicate that scope creep may be
happening, that you might be in
a situation where it's going too far or
getting too complex, and
that can reel back as well,
cuz anyone can understand that.
Anyone can understand this is
[LAUGH] too much for what is needed.
Performance as well, you do wanna
think about performance, right, not so
much in the sense of, can it take
a billion requests or something like that?
But is it performant, right?
What happens when we throw
a little bit of load on it,
going back to the UUIDs
don't scale example.
There is a valid argument in saying that
if one specific function has to make seven
lookups to a user, maybe you have your
user model spread out too much, right?
Maybe your data is not all in one
place as efficiently as it could be.
And so because of that, it's going to make
it so that if we do ever have a thousand
requests at one time, we're gonna DDoS
the database or something like that.
So understanding the performance that
is actually needed for the system and
not, again, having that over complication
will make it so that it should be.
It might not scale perfectly, but
it's the KISS principle, right?
Keep it super simple.
If you keep it super simple,
then you'll probably be able to
scale that system better as well.
And this is also really important as well.
Any constraints that you can think
of whatsoever, any constraints.
It can be budget,
it can be resources, it can be time,
challenge yourself before
letting others challenge you.
Because you'll be more impressive in a
discussion if you've already thought about
what a concern of somebody
else might bring up.
And that's part of the salesmen part
of building an architecture, right?
You know what,
I've already thought about that and
this is what I found,
what do you think, right?
That makes the person listen to you and
wanna buy in.
The conversation becomes less about
I'm right, and you're wrong, and
more about let's work on this together,
here's what I found first, right?
So, seriously guys,
challenge your own designs, right?
It's really important to look
at something and be like,
how would I push back on this if I was to,
right?
It can help a lot, and
those constraints can help narrow scope,
they can help lower budget costs,
they can help with a lot of stuff.
>> Erik Reinert: We talked
about this a bit, but
now we're talking more about the actual
scalability of the system itself, right?
How can it grow and adapt?
For example, going back to the user
service scenario, if you're heavily,
heavily dependent on user data,
and you know tons of requests
are gonna go to that service,
consider separating that out.
Consider, is this going to
be something that's going
to be reused by a bunch of other services.
A good example of that is
in the V2 version of Quirk,
what I'm building,
I wanted a plug and play bot system.
And what I mean by that is, is we knew
that in the future we were gonna support
Twitch, we were gonna support YouTube,
we were gonna support Discord,
other platforms, but
I didn't wanna have to reinvent the wheel
every time we connected those systems.
And so what did we do?
We built what we call our bot engine,
which really just means that you can
send any kind of text to it, and
it knows how to respond with
natural language, NLP basically.
And so that made it so that when
Discord was ready to be connected,
it was just like, all right,
create the listener and
then send all the messages
to the same place.
The way that it's processed, the way
that the AI actually computes it and
returns it, it's the same.
It works the exact same
across all platforms.
And what's nice about that,
Plug for Quirk,
whenever it comes out,
[LAUGH] hopefully Twitchcon,
[LAUGH] is that you have
a unified user experience as well.
Now the user knows that they
can expect the same AI ML
responses on Discord, on Twitch,
on YouTube, whatever.
And we did that not only
as a experience part, but
also just make it easier so
that when we want to in the future,
we can hook in more systems,
and it's easier to process.
I mean, theoretically, if we wanted,
we could hook it up to Twitter,
it's just text.
It just processes text
at the end of the day.
Again, security requirements
are also really important.
You should absolutely be thinking about
data, protection of data, processes
within systems, how they communicate with
each other, right, things like that.
And to be clear,
this is all part of the research, okay?
This isn't taking a design and saying,
does this fit their requirements?
This is no, we're going to think about
all of these things beforehand so
that we step forward with,
again, scalability concerns,
security requirements, stuff like that.
And again,
this kinda goes into this as well, but
I have to mention it just because
I work at a company like this.
Regulatory or
compliance requirements, right?
If you have HIPAA requirements
that you need to stick with,
be sure that anything that is
considered knows how to play process or
handle those things.
Really research should be thinking
about anything that you possibly can.
And if you also have integrated systems,
say you already have existing systems,
this is part of that
conversation of preparing for
anyone to bring up maybe something
that already exists, right?
So if you're integrating a system,
you wanna think about, okay,
well, maybe a requirement is,
is that it uses HTTP versus GRPC or
maybe that we stick with
the same kind of protocols.
So that, again, we're not changing
something on the fly, and
then we can't hook that system up
to other things in the future.
All of these roles play together.